# Why I don't support the Pride movement

[![Author](/assets/images/authors/Soni.png)](https://twitter.com/soni801_)

**Last updated 19/02/2022**

---

Many of you may know that this write-up has been in the working for several months now. And you might ask yourself: wow,
have you finally managed to complete the write-up? ...no. Not really. But this was way overdue, so I decided to release
a shorter version first:

### The Pride movement has been growing in popularity for a long time, but it has exploded during the last few years. Our society is moving towards a place that would be detrimental to the world as we know it, so I think it's important to discuss the darker sides of this ideology before doing even more with it. You see, there's a lot of things that are not that apparent from the Pride movement's jovial advertisement for the ideology.

So, before we get too far into it, let's establish what "pride" is. You see, 'pride' has several definitions. Let's
start with the word itself. The word 'pride' means to be proud of something or a satisfaction from one's own
achievements. This was what the Pride movement started as, but it has since changed drastically. Now, the 'Pride
movement' is a movement that fights to promote and integrate the 'Pride ideology' in our society. The 'Pride
ideology' is a bit more difficult to define, primarily because it's promoted by the "Pride organisations", which are
different for every country. I'm Norwegian, so for this write-up I'll refer to the
[manifesto](https://www.foreningenfri.no/om-oss/fri-mener/politiskplattform/) written by the Norwegian subsidiary of the
Pride organisation: _FRI – Foreningen for kjønns- og seksualitetsmangfold_

In this write-up I'll talk about these 3 important subjects:
- What the Pride ideology promotes
- Issues with the nature of the ideology
- The effects the Pride ideology would have on society if implemented

---

Let's first address the elephants in the room: You have probably already noticed that I refer to the Pride
organisation's manifesto as the 'Pride ideology'. I've heard a lot of people saying that it is not actually an ideology,
but that is simply not true. You see, the definition of an ideology is "_a system of ideas and ideals, especially one
which forms the basis of economic or political theory and policy._" - and this is _exactly_ what the Pride ideology is.
So if you don't like that I refer to it as an ideology, I'm sorry, but that's your problem. Because the objective truth
is that it is an ideology.

The second important thing I need to mention is my religion. I am Christian, and this does of course influence my
thoughts and opinions. However, my opinion on the Pride ideology actually has nothing to do with my faith, and I will
never mention my religion further in this write-up or even base anything off of it. My opinions would be the same no
matter which outlook on life I had. My faith will not impact this write-up in any capacity, but if you still don't like
that I talk about these subjects when I'm religious, you're free to leave. I'd rather you only read this write-up if
you're genuinely interested in what I have to present. That way, we would both be more understanding of the other side's
opinions, and be more ready for a healthy discussion.

I'd also like to clarify the situation of _sex_ vs. _gender_. Although sex and gender are very related, there is a small
difference between them. In layman's terms, sex is your physical body, while gender is what you think you are. However,
most languages have sex and gender being the same word, indicating that it should be the same. (ex. Italian “sesso”,
Romanian “sex”, Russian “пол”, German “Geschlecht”, Spanish “sexo”, French “sexe”, Norwegian “kjønn”, Chinese “性別”,
Dutch “geslacht” …you get the point) In this write-up, I'll use the terms interchangeably. Now, with that out of the
way, let's get to the matter at hand.

### What the Pride ideology promotes

Contrary to popular belief, the Pride ideology is not actually "love is love". Although the ideology also touches on
sexuality, its main purpose by far is to promote a radical new gender ideology. Before going further into this write-up,
it's important to understand what we are discussing. I am not going to talk a lot about the Pride ideology's view on
sexuality, as I don't have a lot to say about that subject. Respectfully, I don't care who you love, what gender the
person is, or what you decide to do with it. As long as you don't push it on me, you're fine to love who you want to.
However, I will talk a lot about their radical new gender ideology. There is a lot of uncertainty about this in today's
society, and it's important to understand every side of it, including the darker ones.

So, let's establish what the ideology promotes. Although there is a lot of details and smaller deviations, it primarily
talks about these two points:
- Anyone should be able to change their gender to whatever they want to at any given point
- There should be an infinite amount of genders, and anyone can create a new gender or identify as anything arbitrary.

This is, of course, a massive oversimplification, but it explains pretty well what their overall opinions are.

### Issues with the nature of the ideology

Now, when it is promoted, this all seems like an amazing society: everyone being accepting of each other, no matter who
they are or identify as? That sounds amazing! However, it is impossible to implement in a healthy way. In fact, it is so
difficult to implement that it would actually do the opposite of its intentions: make the world even less accepting than
it already is. And the root of the problem is the way the Pride organisations choose to implement their ideal. Let's
look at this from an ideal/implementation perspective. What is their ideal? A world where everyone can live comfortably
and where everyone accepts each other. How do the Pride movement want to implement it? Through changing the fundamentals
of how gender works. I agree wholeheartedly with their ideal; that would be an amazing world to live in. However, the
implementation the Pride movement wants is where the problems begin.

The Pride movement wants to address people that struggle mentally. In many cases, people that struggle want a new
identity, which is easily achievable by changing gender. This is where their ideology comes in. They want to normalise
changing gender, and even promote it as a legitimate solution to depression. This causes many people to try to change
their gender to get out of depression, which usually works. However, that it works doesn't mean it's a good idea or a
good solution to the problem. I’ve heard many stories about people feeling down, then deciding to change their gender
and suddenly being happy again. However, this does not necessarily mean you _need_ to change your gender to get out of
depression. The reason people would feel better after changing their gender is more than likely because they in a way
have a new identity, an identity that is not linked to the trouble that caused them the depression. You get a fresh new
start without the problems, in a way. However, as I said, I don’t think changing your identity is a good way to solve
this problem. When you change your identity, you would just escape the problems instead of dealing with them. I would
rather encourage dealing with your problems. It is harder, sometimes a lot harder, but it will massively strengthen you
as a person.

### The effects the Pride ideology would have on society if implemented

Possibly the largest problem with this ideology is not the nature of it, but the extreme consequences it would have if
it was largely implemented in our society. And there are many of them. I'll only mention a few, as this is supposed to
be a shorter write-up, but feel free to contact me if you want a larger discussion.

To start off, let's discuss the process of changing gender. Changing gender is a very large process, often spanning
several years. In addition, you need more medication to "keep your new gender". The Pride movement fights _a lot_ for
their ideology. And even though it is nice to fight for your opinions, promoting it to this degree has some unintended
side effects. You see, this radical new gender ideology is now being forced onto everyone, even people that are too
young to be able to make informed decisions. This already causes many people to consider gender reassignment surgery
that would never even imagine it if the Pride movement didn't force themselves onto others in the way they do.

And this will only get worse with time. The amount of people regretting their choice or even choosing to de-transition
is already very high, and will likely only get higher if it continues like this. Most studies being done of this have
reported over 5% of people de-transitioning, with some even close to 10%. Even though it might not seem like it, this is
_a lot_. And it'll only get worse over time, given the rapid growth of the ideology. This is not only problematic
related to costs and resource consumption, but because of the nature of the procedure, it would create a lot of damage.
"Gender-affirming medication" is in almost all cases irreversible and will permanently alter a person. This is horrible
for someone that didn't even want to transition in the first place, but got influenced by the massive pushing the Pride
movement does.

Furthermore, let’s address how this would affect sports. Sports is very important to a lot of people, and many sports
are divided into men and women categories. Males and females are fundamentally different not only psychologically, but
also physically. The truth here is that male athletes are typically 40% physically stronger than women in the same
category. If we let males that identify as females compete in female sports, that would give them a massive advantage.
This has already started happening, and it's angering sports fans all over the world. People with male bodies have
started competing in women sports, giving them a massive advantage, fundamentally breaking sports and the concept of
fair play. And if someone tries to mention that it’s unfair, they immediately get labelled as transphobic and publicly
embarrassed.

Several well renowned athletes have even quit sports because of this. To combat it, it would mean that we
either must redo sports from the ground up, or that we shouldn’t let transgender people compete in sports. If the Pride
movement’s vision about the majority of people choosing another gender than what they were assigned at birth becomes
true, this would mean that we could no longer have sports. The chance of this working out well is quite low. I can only
imagine the conflicts this would cause.

But this is only the tip of the iceberg. As I mentioned earlier, the Pride ideology also wants “all genders to be
socially recognised”. They claim that everyone should be able to choose their own arbitrary gender and pronouns. This
would cause massive headaches for everyone involved – thousands upon thousands of genders, not being sure about anyone’s
pronouns, people getting offended by you not immediately recognising their 30-letter long pronoun – the list goes on for
ages. My point is that this could very quickly become an anarchy – where there are so many choices that the ideology
backfires, and instead of it creating a better society, it creates a worse one. I think this is a good example of ‘less
is more’. Fewer choices would create a much more stable society.

Let's also discuss the phenomenon the Pride movement calls "misgendering" – this is the act of someone referring to
another person using pronouns that are not 'preferred' by them. The Pride organisations want to make this illegal. Again
this might seem like something they do to be nice, but this will have tons of negative consequences. Let's imagine
something:

Their visions become reality. You work at a coffee bar, and a lady comes in. You use female pronouns when talking to
her, but she actually preferred something else. Therefore, you have now "misgendered" her, and face several years in
prison. Just because you didn't telepathically know her exact thoughts. And this is only one of the results this would
have.

And the list goes on for ages. This should be enough to give you a general idea of the problem, but there are tons of
other unintended side effects that the Pride ideology would introduce. This is why it is important to fully understand
what this would actually mean in practice.

### Conclusion

I'd love to publish the longer write-up about this topic that I have in the works, but I just lack motivation to finish
the project. But from this alone we can already see that there are tons of issues with the Pride movement, and many that
I didn't mention in this write-up. The main issue is probably all the negative effects it would have. The Pride ideology
is build on a really kind and wonderful principle, but the way they have chosen to implement it would never work in
practice. I'm all for better understanding of other humans, but I'm not for this radical new gender ideology.
