# About me

[![Author](/assets/images/authors/Soni.png)](https://twitter.com/soni801_)

**Last updated 19/08/2022** (dd/mm/yyyy)

---

### I am weird. This write-up aims to be a short introduction, and to explain some of my 'quirks'.

I may have directed you to this write-up if you're asking questions about my behaviour, or if I've acted condescending
or rude towards you. If the latter, I'm sorry. I won't justify my actions, but I'll try to explain why they might have
happened.

In this write-up, I'll briefly go over 4 main subjects:
- [ADHD](#adhd)
- [Social incompetence](#social-incompetence)
- [Psychopathy](#psychopathy)
- [Depression](#depression)

> As a warning, this write-up will mention attempted suicide. If this is something you are sensitive towards, I
> recommend not reading the section regarding depression, or avoid the write-up altogether.

But first a small introduction. I am Samuel, but go by 'Soni' online. I'm Norwegian and work within IT, as well as have
interests within IT. I do programming, lighting and general server/IT operation, both professionally and in my free
time. I love discussions, especially technical ones. However, I differ from the norm in that I care a lot about the
quality about a conversation, even to the point of where I made a write-up explaining
[what I think defines a healthy discussion](/healthy-discussion/). Unfortunately, the fact that I love discussions does
create bad situations as I often find myself in arguments about trivial matters, something that annoys a lot of the
people around me. Let me try to explain why this keeps happening:

### ADHD

I have ADHD. Well, sort of. Well, I do, but not 'officially'. Explaining this might be difficult, but I'll try to give
you the short version: The Norwegian healthcare system sucks. Put simply, only some specific doctors are allowed to
assign diagnoses to you. It doesn't matter whether you have a certain condition, it doesn't matter whether some doctors
agree, it in some cases doesn't even matter if your GP or primary doctors agree that you have the condition, you aren't
able to get certain diagnoses unless you talk to some very specific people.

I have been to several medical professional, including doctors, all of which have agreed that it is very likely that I
have ADHD, some even saying that I _definitely_ have it. Knowing this, I went to the only authority that can give out
psychology-related diagnoses; 'BUP'. Here, I was met by complete and utter neglect and disregard. BUP actually made my
situation at the time significantly worse, something I have also heard others experience in the past. Needless to say,
they were not interested in giving me any diagnosis. In fact, they weren't even interested in listening to me at all.
They didn't care about me, and cared even less about what I had to say.

Now, I am not saying that going to a psychiatrist or therapist is bad, I actually still really recommend doing it if you
are struggling or wondering if you have certain conditions. I have talked to some other people with similar experiences
and to people with different experiences, and it turns out that the psychological healthcare in Norway differs wildly
from place to place. The one I went to, 'BUP Ã˜yane', is one of the worst rated in the country, and I've heard
exclusively bad experiences from the people I have talked to. I am planning on going to a different BUP location later
to see if I'm able to get more respect there, but I haven't gotten around to that yet. I first need to realise that
despite my previous experiences, there are professionals that care about their patients.

I hope that provides some insight into the situation and explains it well, it sure was a longer explanation that I was
originally planning to write. The summary is that although I don't technically have the diagnosis, it is fairly certain
that I have ADHD. And even if I don't, it is at least a way of _explaining why_ I behave like I do, even if it isn't
_the cause_ of it.

---

I am planning on making an in-depth write-up about the effects ADHD have on people in the future, but for now I will
give a quick overview here. As a disclaimer, I am not a medical professional. A lot of the following will be based on
personal experience and the experience of others I have talked to, but definitions and some explanations will be cited
from well renowned sources like [Oxford Languages](https://languages.oup.com/google-dictionary-en/) and
[Healthline Media](https://www.healthline.com/).

ADHD stands for _attention deficit hyperactivity disorder_, and the name itself describes it to a certain degree. It is
most commonly perceived as something that lowers your ability to pay attention, and gives you short bursts of energy,
called hyperactivity. The problem with ADHD is that it is a very broad term. Not only can ADHD differ wildly from person
to person, it also has several 'sub-conditions' and sets of traits that vary a lot. Because of this, I will talk about
it the way I perceive it, even though it might differ from the norm.

Let's first address the elephant in the room: the hyperactivity. ADHD is somewhat weird in that it gives both short
bursts of energy but also longer periods with significantly less energy. Overall, it makes energy management very
difficult. For me, this causes me to suddenly lose focus or interest in a conversation or activity, and can be
interpreted by others as laziness or lack of care.

ADHD makes me very impulsive, which is a problem in several parts of life. Most importantly, it makes budgeting/spending
management harder. That is outside the scope of this write-up, but I will explain it in my upcoming write-up on ADHD.
More related to the social aspect of life, it makes me not think through what I am saying before I say it. Most people
think about something before saying it, whereas I say something, then think about what I said. This can often come off
as rude, as I don't realise I'm insulting someone or something before after I've said it. It can also put me in a lot of
conversations I didn't really intend to start, as well as making me say things that is worded badly or in some cases
not even correct. In addition, it can give me sudden bursts of energy during a conversation, especially when I am 
engaged in the subject at hand. This often makes me talk faster, less accurate and only worsens the problems previously
mentioned.

This impulsiveness can also give me sudden urges to do a certain activity. The problem with ADHD is that if this urge
doesn't get satisfied, it can both grow in intensity and give you unwanted side effects such as lightheadedness, severe
extended loss of focus, or a feel of inner anger, dissatisfaction or discomfort. These feelings can often stay for
several months unless you do the activity you had urges for. This can be a major problem, especially if it involves a
significant financial decision, and makes ADHD control me more than I can control it.

On the contrary, it also makes me less able to make decisions. In medical terms, this is called 'executive dysfunction'.
This is somewhat difficult to fully explain to someone that hasn't experienced it themselves, but in layman's terms it
makes it harder for me to take actions or just do something. It affects my ability to choose activities, it makes it
harder to plan, it affects time management, and makes it harder to organise myself or my environment. It also makes me
more likely to procrastinate, and overall less able to find motivation or energy to work on a given project or activity.
Executive dysfunction isn't exclusive to ADHD, but is commonly correlated with it.

ADHD also impacts my memory. I will often forget things, names, voices or even faces. If you tell me to remember
something or remind you of something, chances are I will forget. I might even forget something only a few seconds after
I had the thought. Combined with executive dysfunction, this can make me really unproductive in certain conditions, and
can even cause me to completely forget about some of my projects, leaving them unfinished and untouched. Unfortunately,
todo lists or reminders don't really help. Combining bad memory with executive dysfunction, all my todo lists just fill
up more and more, until the point where there's so much on my list that I struggle navigating it. So if I forget
something, it is not to be rude, it is simply that I can't remember.

I am a programmer, and I love logical thinking and problem-solving. Because of that, my biggest fear has always been to
not be able to control, moderate, or even influence my own actions or thoughts. Unfortunately, my ADHD has pretty much
made that fear into reality, especially when it is unmedicated, as it currently is. I can often get asked 'why did you
do that?' and my answer is genuinely 'I don't know' because my brain (which I perceive as separate from me) just told me
to do it. It really does just feel like I have little to say about my own actions, my brain just kind of does them for
me.

It might seem like I am 'blaming' my ADHD for all the negative sides of me, but that is really not what I am trying to
do. I am just trying to explain why I behave like I do, because there is a lot I genuinely can't control about myself.

### Social incompetence

Moving forward on the topic of ADHD, it is naturally to talk about social competence, or in my case, social
_incompetence_. ADHD has a very similar 'sister-condition': autism. Autism and ADHD has a pretty large overlap when it
comes to both symptoms, traits and effects. Autism also differs wildly from person to person, meaning that I will once
again need to do some generalisation when talking about it.

I do not think I have autism, but I have several traits from my ADHD that resembles the ones generally found in autism.
Generally, I can participate in conversations without major issues, but there are some areas where I have trouble. One
of my major problems is often not being able to tell whether something is a joke. If I am talking to someone I have
known for a while, I might start recognising patterns of irony or sarcasm, but that is not the case for most people I
talk to. This often makes me read jokes as if they were serious, and has caused a lot of annoyance for others. Because
of this, I always prefer if people use emojis or emotes when chatting, or tell me whether something is a joke in a
'face-to-face' conversation. I feel awful when there has been a joke I didn't get, both because it is embarrassing for
me when getting called out about it, but also because most people don't understand that I'm not trying to be rude, I
just can't understand jokes.

Generally, I am pretty bad at 'reading the room' and understanding context or context clues from previous conversation.
I also have trouble reading and understanding the tone of a conversation. I can't really tell if someone is angry at me
or just making a funny comment. This can often make me join a conversation at an inappropriate time, or say things that
might be perceived as rude, condescending or 'unnatural'. I often want to ask for context or more information about a
subject, but I've come to the realisation that more often than not, the other members of the conversation don't feel
it's appropriate to ask for information. I often get replies like 'stop putting your mose in other people's business'
even though all I wanted was to understand what the conversation is about.

Because of this, I have always kind of 'lived in the shadow', avoided social interaction and not attended social events.
This has made me miss out on a lot of the social development, and makes me struggle with what's considered 'new and
cool' at certain times. It also makes me not understand certain phrases or principles, even though they might be 'really
obvious' to most people. I often have to ask questions like 'what does that mean?' or 'can you explain/elaborate?',
which usually just ends in me getting a response along the lines of 'you know what I mean' or 'are you dumb?'. This is
fairly taxing for me, especially if I get told that 'everyone else' understands it or that it is 'obvious', as it paints
a picture that I am less intelligent than others in a given situation. Even though I might have less social knowledge
than many others, feeling less intelligent does nothing but harm me.

### Psychopathy

> TODO

### Depression

> TODO
