# What I think defines a healthy discussion

[![Author](/assets/images/authors/Soni.png)](https://twitter.com/soni801_)

**Last updated 01/07/2022** (dd/mm/yyyy)

---

### As our world gets more and more hostile towards healthy discussions, it is clear that I have different views on how a discussion should take place than what a lot of other people have. I will try to explain my opinion here:

A 'healthy discussion' to me is a lot like a healthy conversation. If you haven't heard these phrases before, they are
just fancier ways of saying a conversation where everyone is nice to each other and try to make progress in the
conversation as opposed to insulting or otherwise looking down on each other.

I believe that healthy discussions still should take place, and that they are the best form for discussions â€“ where
everyone will benefit and walk out happier than they came in, even if they 'lost' the discussion. If we are going to
have a discussion, I would like it to be as healthy as possible, for the reasons explained so far. I recognise that it
is realistically impossible to keep a discussion 100% healthy, but it never hurts to try our best. A healthy discussion
will not only be more productive than the counterpart, but will also keep all parties more focused and involved in the
discussion, by which making it more enjoyable. It will also make the argument less focused on rivalry and more on making
progress and trying to explain and justify one's opinion, and in some cases even change someone's mind.

Let's establish what makes a discussion healthy. As I touched on, a healthy discussion is a discussion that goes off the
premise that the point is to make progress, not to tear the other parties down. Here is a short list of common factors I
think contribute to a healthy discussion:

 - Avoid using "slang". Not everyone has the same knowledge about terminology.
 - All involved parties should be invested enough in the discussion that it is to their benefit to continue it.
 - The focus of the discussion should be to make progress; to justify and explain one's opinion and compare it to the
opinions of the opposing parties, not to tear down others or spread hate.
 - Sources and source critics are welcome and encouraged.
 - Try to understand others, and ask questions. Questions massively help enrich the conversation and avoiding
misunderstandings. They should be encouraged, not frowned upon.
 - Try to break down others opinions in a constructive way, as opposed to expressing negativity. This will result in an
overall more friendly vibe in the conversation.
 - Questions should be answered, thoroughly and in a respectful way. Not answering or being disrespectful in one's
response only tear down the discussion and adds nothing of value.
 - Don't accuse others of not knowing "basic terminology". No one sits on the same knowledge and experiences, and this
needs to be taken into account. Always meet everyone with respect.
 - Trying to annoy another participant only disturbs the discussion.
 - Taking breaks is good. There is no such thing as "bitching out of a discussion" or "ragequitting", breaks are healthy
and encouraged to avoid burnout. Someone does not automatically "lose" a discussion if they decide to take a break.
 - Conclusions are decisions that all parties agree on. The discussion will not arrive at a conclusion that is not
agreed upon by all parties.
 - Everyone is free to decide when they want to leave the discussion, but no one can just decide that they are "the
winner" of the discussion unless all parties agree.
 - If someone loses interest in a discussion, they don't lose dignity by leaving. It is in fact good for someone
uninterested to leave, as having not all parties be interested will only damage the conversation.
 - Try to focus less on who "wins" or "loses" the discussion, and more on the progress that is being made. After all,
the most important part is to enjoy yourself and make progress, not to get the dopamine of "winning" a discussion.
 - Comparisons and scenarios can really help visualise your view to other parties. Try incorporating them to create a
better overall understanding of the situation.
 - Try to avoid interrupting others. Interruptions don't do anything good, and in most cases just lead to frustration.
 - Remember that mistakes can be made. No one is perfect, and it is easy to say the wrong words or misunderstand
terminology. Don't use someone's mistakes against them.
 - Although personal experience can be a good way to justify your own opinion, keep in mind that it rarely changes the
mind of someone without that experience.
 - Avoid intentional [fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fallacy). It will not benefit any party.

All of these alone are things that contribute to a healthy discussion, and together they would be close to perfect. It
is practically impossible to achieve all of these, but the more, the better.

So, in conclusion, I believe all discussions should be healthy, and I strive to make the discussions I am a part of as
healthy as possible. If we all try our best to follow this principle, I think we would all enjoy ourselves a lot more
when having discussions.
